---
layout: basic
title: 424 West 49th street By-Laws
---

# BY-LAWS OF 424 WEST 49TH STREET CONDOMINIUM

Borough of Manhattan

County of New York, City and State of New fork

GERSTEN, SAVAGE, KAPLOWITZ, ZUKERMAN AND LIEBMAN

575 Lexington Avenue

New York, New York 10022

## ARTICLE I -- PLAN OF UNIT OWNERSHIP

Section 1. Unit Ownership.

The property, located in the borough of Manhattan, County of New York, City and 
State of New York at 424 West.-49th Street, New York, New York (herein after 
called the "Property”) has been submitted pursuant to the provisions of Article 
9-B of the Real Property Law of the State of New York by. the Declaration 
recorded in the New York County Office of the Register of the City of New York, 
simultaneously herewith. The Condominium thereby created shall hereinafter be 
known as 424 West 49th Street Condominiun.

Section 2. Applicability of By-Laws.

The provisions of these By-Laws are applicable to the Property of the 
Condominium and to the use and occupancy thereof. The term "Proper- ty” as used 
herein shall include the land, the Building and all other improvements thereof 
(including the Units, the Common Elements and Limited Common Elements), owned in 
fee simple absolute, and all easements, rights and appurtenances belonging 
thereto, and all other property, personal or mixed, intended for use in 
connection therewith, all of which are intended to be submitted to the 
provisions of said Article 9-B of the Real Property Law of the State of New 
York. The Condominium Units are hereinafter sometimes referred to as "Unit" or 
"Units".

Section 3. Application.

All present and future owners, mortgagees, lessees and eccupants of Units and 
their employees, and any other persons who May use the facilities of the 
Property in any manner are subject to these By-Laws, the Declaration and the 
Rules attached hereto as Schedule A.

The acceptance of a deed or conveyance or the entering into of a lease for a 
Unit or the act of occupancy of a Unit shall constitute an agreement that these 
By-Laws, the Rules and Regulations and the provisions of the Declaration, as 
they may be amended from time to time, are accepted, ratified, and will be 
complied with.

Section 4. Office.

The office of the Condominium and of the Board of Managers shall be located at 
the Property.


ARTICLE II -- BOARD OF MANAGERS

Section 1. Number and Tern. The number of Managers which shall constitute the 
whole Board shall not be less than three and not more than five. Ontil succeeded 
by thé Managers elected at the first meeting of Unit Owners called for such 
purpose, Managers need not be Unit Owners; thereafter, all Managers, other than 
a representative of Sponsor, shall be Unit Owners, the principal or officer of a 
Unit Owner or the spouse of a Unit Owner. The ‘number of Managers. elected at 
the first such . eeti. be five. Thereafter, within the limits above » “number of 
Managers shall be determined by the Unit Owners at their annual meetings: The 
Managers shall be elected at the annual meeting of the members. Except as 
provided in Section 1(b) of Article III of these. By-Laws, at the first meeting 
of the Unit Owners at which Managers are to be elected the term of office of two 
of the Managers shall be fixed for three years. The two term of office of one of 
the Managers shall be fixed at two years, and the term of office of one of the 
Managers shall be fixed at one year. The two nominees receiving the two greatest 
number of votes shall. serve three year terms, the one nominee receiving the 
next greatest number of votes shall serve a two year term, and the nominee 
receiving the next greatest number of votes shall serve a one year term. There 
shall always be an odd number of Managers. At the expiration of the initial term 
of office of each respective Manager his successor shall be elected to serve a 
term of three years for as long as there are five Managers. The Managers shall 
hold office until their successors have been elected and hold. their first 
meeting.

Section 2. Powers and Duties. The Board of Managers shall have the powers and 
dut:2s necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Condom-nium and 
may do all such acts and. things except as by law or by che Declaration or by 
these By-Laws may not be delegated to the Board of Managers by the Unit Owners. 
Such powers and duties of the Board of Managers shall include, but shall not be 
Limited to, the following: .

a. Contracting for the necessary services for operation, care, upkeep and 
maintenance of the Common Elements.

b. Determination of the Common Expenses and Common Charges required for the 
affairs of the Condominium, including without limitation, the operation and 
maintenance of the Property. .

c. Collection of the Common Charges and expenses of the Condominium from the 
Unit Owners.

d. Employment and dismissal of the personnel necessary for the maintenance and. 
operation of the Common Elements,

e. Adoption and amendment of Rules and Regulations covering the details of the 
operations and -use of the Property subject to a tight of the Unit Owners to 
overrule the Board (See Article VI, Section 16). .

f. Opening of bank accounts on behalf of the Condominium and designating the 
signatories required therefor.

g. Purchasing or leasing or otherwise acquiring in the mame of the Board of 
Managers, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners, 
Units offered for sale or lease surrendered by their Owners to the Board of 
Managers. ,

h.Purchasing of Units at foreclosure or other judicial Sales in the name of the 
Board of Managers, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all 
Unit Owners.

i. Acquiring in the name of the Board of Managers, or its designee, corporate or 
otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners, rights and interests in real and 
personal property for use in connection with the ownership and operation of the 
Property as a condominium, as des- cribed in the Declaration and these By-Laws.

j. Selling, leasing, mortgaging (but not voting the votes appurtenant to), or 
otherwise dealing with units acquired by, and Subleasing Units leased by the 
Board of Managers or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit 
Owners.

k. Organizing corporations to act as designees of the Board of Managers in 
acquiring title to or leasing of Units on behalf of all Unit Owners.

l. Obtaining and reviewing of insurance for the Property, including the Onits, 
pursuant to the provisions of Article VI, Section 2 hereof.

m. Making of repairs, additions and improvements to or alterations of the 
Property and repairs to and restora- tion of the Property in accordance with the 
other provisions of these By-Laws, after damage or destruc- tion by fire or 
other casualty, or as a result of condemnation of eminent domain proceedings.

n. Negotiation and settlement of all claims and actions relating to the 
Condominium.

o. Borrowing money on behalf of the Condominium when required in connection with 
the operation, care, upkeep and maintenance of the Common Elements provided, 
however, that (i) the consent of a Majority of all Unie Owners shall be required 
for the borrowing of any sum in excess of $5,000, and (ii) no lien to secure 
repayment of any sum borrowed may be created on any Unit or its appurtenant 
interest in the Common Elements without the written consent.of the Unit Owner. 
[¢£ any sum borrowed by the Board of Managers on behalf of the Condominium 
pursuant to the authority contained in this paragraph (0) is not repaid by the 
Board, a Unit Owner who pays to the creditor such proportion thereof as his 
interest in the Common Elements bears to the interest of all the Unit Owners in 
the Common Elements shall be entitled to obtain from the creditor a release of 
any judgment or other lien which said creditor shall have filed or shall have 
the right to file against the Unit Owner's Unit.

p. Levying fines against Unit Owners for violations of the Rules and Regulations 
governing the operation and use of the Property and levying late payment charges 
against Unit owners for late payment of their Common Charges.

q. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these By-Laws, so long 
as the Sponsor or ‘any Spon- sor-designee shall continue to own a Unit, but in 
no event for a period in excess of two years from the closing of title to the 
first Unit ("Pirst Unit Closing"), the Board of Managers may not, without the 
Sponsor's or Sponsor-designee's prior written consent, (i) make any addition, 
alteration or improvement to the Common Elements or to any Unit or (ii) assess 
any Common Charge for the creation of, addition to or replacement of all or part 
of a reserve, contingency or surplus fund except that Sponsor will consent to 
replacements to the contingency fund provided for in Schedule B of the Offering 
Plan for the Property to the extent that the aggregate amount of such fund does 
not exceed 3.00% of the budgeted expenses of the Con- dominium or (iii) borrow 
money on behalf of the Condominium (except where necessary to perform work 
required by law to the extent that existing reserves are insufficient). As long 
as the Sponsor or any Sponsor-designee shall continue to own a Unit the Board of 
Managers may not, without the Sponsor's or Spon- sor-designee's prior written 
consent (i) amend the Declaration or these By-Laws so as to in any way adversely 
affect the Sponsor or its designees or (ii) interfere with the offer and sale or 
leasing of Units; Operation of general or sales and leasing offices at the 
Property; actions necessary for construction, renovation, repair or correction 
at the Property, as required by Sponsor. The Sponsor or Sponsor- designee shall 
have the right to withhold its consent to any of the foregoing actions. However, 
notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (q), the Sponsor or 
Sponsor-designee shall not withhold its consent to the making of capital repairs 
to the Common Elements or assessment of any Common Charge for expenses required 
to comply with applicable law.

Section 3, Managing Agent and Manager. The Board of Managers may employ for the 
Condominium a Managing agent and/or a manager at a compensation established by 
the Board of Managers to perform such duties and services as the Board of 
Managers shall authorize. The Board of Managers may delegate to the Manager or 
managing agent, all of the powers granted to the Board of Managers by these 
By-Laws other than the -powers set forth in . Subdivisions (b), (e), (£), (g), 
(mh), (i), (J), (k)- (m), (0) and ‘(p) of Section 2 of this Article II. The 
managing agent or manager may not be a member of the Board of Managers.

Section 4. First Board of Managers. The first Board of Managers shall consist of 
persons designated by the Sponsor, who shall hold office and exercise all powers 
of the Board of Managers until the first meeting of Unit Owners called for the 
purpose of electing Managers. Any or all of said Managers shall be subject to 
replacement in the event of resignation or death in the manner set forth in 
Section 6 of this Article.

Section 5. Removal of Members of the Board of Managers. At any regular or 
special meeting of Unit Owners, any one or more of the members of the Board of 
Managers, other than a member designated by the Sponsor or a Sponsor-designee, 
may be removed with or without cause by an affirmative vote of Unit Owners whose 
aggregate Common Interest exceed Fifty percent of the Common Interest of the 
Condominium, and a successor may then and there or thereafter be elected to fill 
the vacancy thus created. Any member of the Board of Managers whose removal has 
been proposed by the Unit Owners shall be given an opportunity to be heard at 
the meeting. A member of the Board of Managers designated by the Sponsor or a 
Sponsor-designee may only be removed by the Sponsor or a Sponsor-designee and 
only they shall have the right to designate a replacement. If a member of the 
Board of Managers ceases to be a Unit Owner, the principal or officer of a Unit 
Owner or the spouse of a Unit Owner, unless such member is a designee of the 
Sponsor or a Sponsor-designee, he shall be deemed to have resigned effective as 
of the date such ownership interest ceased.

Section 6. Vacancies. Vacancies in the. Board of Managers caused by any reason 
other than the removal of a member thereof by a vote of the Unit Owners shall be 
filled by vote of a majority of the cemaining members at a special meeting of 
the Board of Managers held for that purpose promptly after the occurrence of any 
such vacancy, even though the members present at such meeting may constitute 
less than a quorum, and each person so elected shall be a member of the Board of 
Managers until a successor shall be elected at the next annual meeting of the 
Unit Managers to serve the remaining term. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
vacancies of members designated by the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee shall be 
filled only by the Sponsor or Sponsor- designee.

Section 7. Organization Meeting. The first meeting of the members of the Board 
of Managers following the annual meeting of the Unit Owners shall be held within 
ten days there after, at such time and place as shall be fixed by a majority the 
members of the Board of Managers elected at the meeting which they shall have 
been elected, and no notice shall be necessary to the newly elected members of 
the Board of Managers in order legally to constitute such meeting, providing a 
majority of the whole Board of Managers shall be present thereat.

Section 8. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Managers may be 
held at such time and place as shall be determined from time to time by a 
majority of the members of the Board of Managers, but at least two such meetings 
shall be held during each fiscal year. Notice of regular meetings of the Board 
of Managers shall be given to each member of the Board of managers, by mail or 
telegraph, at least five business days prior to the day named for such meeting. 

Section 9. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Managers may be 
called:by the President on three business days' notice to each member ‘of the 
Board of Managers, given by mail, telegraph or personal delivery to the Unit 
owned by such member of the Board of Managers, which notice shall state the 
time, place and purpose of the meeting. Special meetings of the Board of 
Managers shall be called by the President or Secretary in like manner and on 
like notice on the written request of at least three members of the Board of 
Managers.

Section 10. Waiver of Notice. Any member of the Board of Managers may at any 
time waive notice of any meeting of the Board of Managers in writing and such 
waiver shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance by a 
member of the Board of Managers at any meeting of the Board shall constitute a 
waiver of notice by him of the time and place thereof. If all the members of the 
Board of Managers are present at any meeting of the Board, no notice shall be 
required and any business may be transacted at such meeting.

Section ll. Quorum of Board of Managers. At all meetings of the Board of 
Managers, a majority of the members thereof shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of busi- ness, and the votes of a majority of the members of the 
Board of Managers present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall 
constitute the decision of the Board of Managers. T£ at any meeting of the Board 
of Managers there shall be less than quorum present, a majority of those present 
may adjourn the meeting from time to time. At any such adjourned meeting at 
which a quorum is present, any business which might have been transacted at the 
meeting originally called, may be transacted without further notice. Any action 
required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Managers or any committee 
thereof may be taken without .a meeting if all members of the Board or the 
committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing such 
action, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the 
proceedings of the Board of the committee.

Section.12.  .Pidelity Bonds. The Board of Managers shall obtain fidelity 
bonds-:in the amount of $50,000 or ‘more: for all officers and employees of the 
Condominium handling or _ tesponsible for Condominium funds and for the managing 
agent. The premiums on such bonds shall constitute a Common Expense.

Section 13. Compensation. No member of the Board of Managers shall receive any 
compensation from the Condominium for acting as such.

Section 14. Liability of the Board of Managers. The members of. the Board of 
Members shall not be liable to the Unit Owners for any mistake of judgment, 
negligence, or otherwise, except for their own individual willful misconduct or 
bad faith. The Unit Owners shall indemnify and hold harmless each of the members 
of the Board of Managers against all contractual. liabil- ity to others arising 
out of contracts made by the Board of Managers on behalf of the Condominium 
unless any such contract shall have been made in bad faith or contrary to the 
provisions of the Declaration or of these By-Laws. It is intended that the 
members of the Board of Managers shall have no personal liability with respect 
to any contract made by them on behalf of the Condominium within the scope of 
their authority. It is understood and permissible for the original Board of 
Managers, who are members of the Sponsor, to contract with the Sponsor and af- 
filiated corporations without fear of being charged with self- dealing. Tt is 
also intended that the liability of any Unit Owner arising out of such contract 
made by the Board of Managers or out of the aforesaid indemnity in favor of the 
members of the Board of Managers shall be limited to such proportion of the 
total liability thereunder as his interest in the Common Elements bears to the 
interests of all the Unit Owners in the Common Elements. Every agreement made by 
the Board of Managers or by the managing agent or by the Manager on behalf of 
the Condominium shall provide that the members of the Board of Managers, or the 
Managing agent, or the manager, as the case may be, are acting only as agent for 
the Unit Owners and shall have no personal liability thereunder (except as Unit 
Owners), and that each Unit Owner's liability thereunder shall be limited to 
such proportion of the total liability thereunder as his interest in the Common 
Elements bears to the interest of all Unit Owners in the Common Elements.

Section 15. Executive Committee. The Board of Managers may, by. resolution duly 
adopted, appoint an Executive Committee to consist of three or more members of 
the Board of Managers, at least one of whom shall be a member designated by the 
Sponsor or Sponsor-designee so long as the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee has the 
right to designate a member of - the Board. Such Executive Committee shall have 
and may exercise all the powers of the Board of Managers in the managing of the 
business and affairs of the Condominium during the intervals between the 
meetings of the Board of Managers insofar as may be permitted by law, except 
that the Executive Committee shall not have power (a) to determine the Common 
Charges and expenses required for the affairs of the Condominium, (b) to 
determine the Common Charges payable by the Unit Owners to meet the Common 
Charges and expenses of the Condominium, (c) to adopt or amend the Rules and 
Regulations covering the details of the operation and use of the Property or (d) 
to exercise any of the powers set forth in subdivisions (g), (h), (i) and (o) 
of Section 2 of Article II.

Section 16. Other Committees. The Board of Managers may by resolution create 
such other committees as it shall deem appropriate and such committees shall 
have such powers and authority as the Board of Managers shall vest therein. ~“<e 
members of any such committee, at least one of whom shal= e designated by the 
Sponsor or a Sponsor-designee, 30 long as a Sponsor or Sponsor-designee has the 
right to designate ar it of the Board, shall be appointed by the President of 
the = .a- dominium. The members of any such committee need not be a member of 
the Board of Managers, but must be eligible to be elected to the Board of 
Managers. Such committee shall not have power to do any act which the Executive 
Committee may not do under subsections (a)-(d) of Section 15 of Article II.

